Previously on Empire...
I'm not giving up
on my group, Ma.
If I don't find a girl
in a week, I'll drop it.
Gutter Life Records--
it's a defunct label,
but they got that raw sound
that I've been looking for.
You got something, and it
don't come around every day.
Let me help you
do something with it.
MAN:
Come on, Freda!
You need a god to produce you.
You need me to produce.
JAMAL: I feel like
you're the new Warhol.
God, you are gorgeous.
(grunts)
Lucious-- he wants
your music, Cookie.
He wants everything.
God's been speaking to me.
He wants me to keep
seeking Empire.
What'd you do
to your Uncle Vernon?
Stop it! Stop it!
(grunts, gasps)
You saved my life.
Welcome back
to the Empire.
(screams)
From the streets of Philadelphia
to the top
of the Billboard charts
to the balcony
of the New York Stock Exchange,
to a prison cell in Brooklyn,
Lucious Lyon has emerged
a free man.
(cheering)
After a four-month ordeal,
all charges against him
have been dropped,
and Judge Erskine Robbins has
granted the motion to dismiss.
Now, that's how
you close a case.
Yeah, they ain't really
calling it a suicide?
Yeah, the Feds
are embarrassed.
Had no case without him.
Damn sure don't want nobody
to know the dead body popped up
in the prosecutor's car.
(laughing)
So I heard.
Good to see you.
(sighs)
LUCIOUS:
Andre!
Welcome back to
the Empire, son.
Congratulations, Pop.
You beat the rap.
Yeah. Thanks to you.
And that prosecutor-- she,
uh... took a leave of absence.
Let's not talk
about that here, Pop.
Okay. Business it is.
Oh, by the way, I signed
a new artist to your label,
Gutter Life--
her name's Freda Gatz.
You're gonna meet her
later on.
Andre, nice to see you
without a shovel.
We got a slew
of reporters outside.
They ain't gonna go away until
they get a statement from you.
I'm not saying nothing to them
so they can twist
my words around.
No, you really should make
some sort of statement, Pop.
THIRSTY:
Yeah.
To the Empire!
I mean, that's your thing,
right?
Yeah. Y'all want me
to say something?
THIRSTY:
Yeah.
Let me see your phone.
COOKIE:
Throw your hair back. Uh-huh.
The angle is here, honey.
Up, up.
Work the camera, honey.
Yes, girl! Work!
We need some more oil
on her legs, honey.
* 'Cause now I'm like,
ooh, ooh *
* See me up
in the club, like... *
Yeah, I think
we got it, T. Cool?
Okay. Thanks.
Mm-hmm.
Oh, thank you.
(smacks lips)
(sighs)
What's up?
Porsha set up this dumb phone
with these stupid-ass alerts,
and I can't figure it out.
Can you fix it?
Where is she, anyways?
I fired her
'cause she got me arrested.
Now, fix my phone.
(phone beeping)
Uh, it's Lucious.
What?
Hey, Ma, I want you
to meet somebody.
Boy, get over here and see
what your father posted.
LUCIOUS (over video):
The truth is, I'm innocent.
I was being targeted-- nobody
ever had a case against me.
And all those people that think
they got a problem with me,
y'all can kiss my ass.
Your father's
a heartless bastard.
Vernon's body ain't even...
Mom.
Tiana, I want you to meet
my new lead singer Laura.
Laura, meet Tiana.
Oh, my gosh, I'm a big fan.
Thank you.
Tiana, uh, can you show Laura
to the studio? I'll be
in there in a minute.
Yeah.
Thank you, babe.
Mm-hmm.
Are you two...?
Uh, no. Not anymore.
He's like that with
all the girls.
But he was just telling me and
Cookie that you can really blow.
What?
He thinks you got
a million-dollar voice.
You know,
I can't wait to see
what he's gonna do
with you all.
You really think
Vernon offed himself?
Look, where we from,
if snitches
don't kill themselves,
somebody else will.
Look, I ain't
studying Lucious.
But if we want
this craziness to stop,
it's got to start with us.
Okay? Now, we got
a good thing, son,
a good thing-- look at this.
So I need you to focus.
And you got this video
coming out with Jamal.
I need you to get back in the
studio and make some more tracks
so you can ride this publicity
that you're gonna get, okay?
All right, handsome?
Why you not smiling?
Fix my phone. Porsha put
some damn alerts on there--
I can't get it off.
* Get it, girl,
get, get, get, get it *
* Get it, girl...
Welcome home.
(applause, whooping)
Gutter Life!
OTHERS:
* Get it, girl,
get, get, get, get it *
* Get it, girl, get it, girl
* Get it, girl,
get, get, get, get it *
* Bend it over, baby,
let me see you act up *
* Yeah, I can make the money fly
like NASA, I can *
* I'm electric, you can
catch me in that Tesla *
* Michael Phelps cool, but I
could stroke you way better... *
Ladies and gentlemen,
today is a historic day
for Gutter Life and you artists,
'cause on this day you meet
your new king
and president, my son,
Mr. Andre Lyon!
(cheering)
Congratulations, boss.
Ready to get Gutter with us?
* Who dem wild boys,
that dude payin' *
* Who dat?
* You know what it is
* Who dem wild boys?
* They do it real clean
* Who dat?
That's the way we live *
* Who dem wild boys?
* Who da wild boys?
* Who dat?
* Who dem wild boys?
* Who da wild boys?
* Who da wild boys... eh?
* Who da wild boys, eh?
* Step in the room,
they say damn... *
* I was born to love... you
* And nobody else will do
* I would rather die
than live without you *
* And everybody know it, too
* Don't know why we go to war
* But the one thing
that's for sure *
* I was born to love you
* I know I'm...
No, no, no, no. When you get
to that second
"I was born to love you,"
it's the moment of creation,
it's the Big Bang.
You've got to feel
the whole universe.
All right.
Ne-Yo, what you think?
Be honest with him, man.
Don't hold back.
He needs it.
(clears throat)
It's definitely a record where
the passion needs to be epic.
Personal opinion--
not bad.
Thank you. Means a lot
coming from you.
Indeed.
Honest enough?
You know what,
if y'all thinking like that,
then why don't y'all just do
a little collaboration.
I mean, lay down a couple
tracks, see what happens.
You real smart, but you
behind the game, old man.
We already been talking.
It's gonna happen.
Yeah, I got a
little free time.
I figured I'd come
out on the road
for a couple dates, you know,
debut some of the new stuff.
See, now that's a move
your mama can't make.
That's that thing
that pushes you up
to that whole other level.
MICHAEL:
Hey.
Sorry, the gallery opening's
in 30, so we got to...
Michael, Ne-Yo.
How you doing, brother?
Wow!
Man, I'm a huge fan.
I've been to,
like, 20 of your concerts
or something.
Ah, that's love.
Appreciate it, bro.
Yeah.
Ne-Yo's gonna come out
on a few dates of my tour.
Wait, so he...
you're coming with us?
Yes, sir.
I love that!
MICHAEL:
Wow.
Michael, why don't you
meet me in my office?
I'm gonna just
wrap it up.
Yeah. Great to meet you, Ne-Yo.
Nice to meet you, bro.
That's a mistake.
First rule of the road is
you don't bring your girlfriend.
I mean, boyfriend.
Why is that?
'Cause you need to be...
in seduction mode on that stage.
No distractions.
Dad, I kind of feel like
you're the last person
to give me relationship advice.
(chuckles)
Ask your man.
(sighs) Touring gets lonely.
You know that, L.
Bingo.
Now, I mean, don't get me wrong,
there's a multitude
of temporary
companionship if you,
you know, if you
'bout that life.
I ain't 'bout that life.
But after a while,
you do start, you know,
craving something real, and
if he already got the real...
I say, why not.
To hell with what he's saying.
You need to be focused.
Everything you want
is on the line.
Can't let nothing get
in the way of your moment.
I'll be back.
MAN:
Tough first day back, huh?
ANDRE: My father's reviving an
old label, Gutter Life Records,
(chuckles): which is
exactly what it sounds like.
He appointed me
president.
He's testing you.
Just like he did
with the music therapist.
Michelle.
And she led you to the Lord.
There's a purpose
to all of it.
I need to protect
my family.
I think it's time, I do.
We take baptism at my church
very seriously, Andre.
It requires action...
and devotion.
I'm committed, Reverend.
You tell me what I need to do,
and I'll do it.
First, clear your conscience.
Go to your loved ones, confess
all your sins against them.
Then...
invite them to your baptism.
Confess to my family?
(laughs)
Your house ain't clean
if your closets are dirty.
Reverend, my family
doesn't go to a church
unless somebody's in a casket.
Hmm.
Maybe he wants you
to be his shepherd.
Maybe God wants you
to lead them here.
Maybe.
WOMAN:
Great shoot, T.
You need a lift?
No, thank you. I got
a car on the way.
Thanks, though.
All right. Bye.
Bye.
WOMAN: Oh, snap!
Look, it's Tiana!
Hey, yo, could we get
a flick with you?
Sure.
(camera clicks)
Ah...
one more, one more.
Get off of me!
Stop!
I want that bag, bitch.
Oh, my God!
Keep it movin'!
Help!
Give me my bag!
Yo, what happened?
She got jacked
right outside our front door.
By who?
Two ugly-ass bitches.
You good?
CHICKEN: Hey, y'all,
check this out.
Look what I found on YouTube.
What?
Oh! Oh... look at this!
(woman laughing)
HAKEEM:
Hey, what are they wearing?
WOMAN:
We in that 420, honey.
MAN: Welcome to my kingdom,
Lyon Dynasty.
You wanna chillax here,
you gon' pay tax here.
(laughter over video)
What, is this dude trying
to get signed or something?
No.
MAN: Won't be
no collection agency
sending you
past-due notices, either.
It'll me kicking down your door.
(man continues in Spanish)
Damn. We've been marked.
They're gonna try to
extort money from us.
Has this happened before?
No.
And it's not gonna start.
I'm-a take care of this,
trust and believe that.
* Be alone, oh, oh
* Whoo, I can't feel my face
when I'm with you *
* But I love it...
Yeah, go back.
Those ones, too.
Just, uh... see that?
(exhales)
This is what
I live for.
Everyday people
taking photos of my art
and posting their own
interpretations of it.
You know, when
your music video
goes viral-- which it will--
the price of the original
is gonna just skyrocket.
I want the original.
You already got the original.
MICHAEL:
I do.
Look at you two.
You guys
are hot together.
(chuckles)
Look, I hope you let me use
some of this art for my tour.
That calls for another bottle.
Hey, would you mind?
What about you-- you going
on the road with him or what?
Uh, my dad's already trying
to get into my head and say
don't bring the relationship
on the road, so we'll see.
Well, I mean, it's
Lucious, so...
Personally,
I'm with Lucious on this one.
Relationships are
the death of creativity.
Why would you say that?
You mean to tell me
you've never been in love?
Every day.
And it's real.
So why would I want to close
that off to just one person?
You know
what destroys me?
Same-sex marriage.
Wait... wait, what?
What?
The biggest advancement of
gay rights in American history,
and it gets handed down
from some archaic institution
that doesn't even believe
in natural human desire.
I mean, look, I understand the
impulse, but why are we so keen
on being locked down in these
heteronormative shackles?
Hetero-what?
It's kind of like,
um, when-when they ask, uh,
"Who's-who's the man,
who's the woman?"
Oh.
He's adorable.
You're so damn weird,
but you make me think,
you know what I'm saying?
Like, and that's what...
that's what artists...
that's what artists
are supposed to do,
they're supposed to be...
supposed to
be inspiring.
It's just...
it's just...
Dude, what the...
What are you doing?
This is also
an artistic form of expression.
Yo, even if I was
attracted to you--
which I'm-I'm not...
(laughs)
...at all,
I-I would never
do that to Michael.
Step up, get up.
Baby, you ready?
Come on.
Just come on.
A mouth is a mouth.
* Uh, uh, uh *
* I'm yelling Empire's over...
ANNOUNCER: Hip-hop's hottest
new MC, Hakeem Lyon!
Multi-platinum diva, Tiana!
Lyon Dynasty's queen of soul,
the one and only
Veronica!
* Put your hands up. *
And we got a few other
acts on the hook.
I can't say who yet,
because their deals...
ain't done, but Hakeem
is putting together
a group with three
smokin' hot
Spanish girls.
And Pitbull wants
us to do a set
on his New Year's
Eve show, so...
Okay. I'm in.
I haven't told you
the challenges yet.
(chuckles)
I've been promoting concerts
for a lot of years, Cookie.
I am aware of the challenges.
But we're just not some
little start-up company.
Well, yes, I do
need a promoter
to help us with
our concert game,
but, you know, I do
know what I'm doing.
You also know that
you're Lucious Lyon's ex-wife.
That means that
people think
you're swimming in cash.
And that makes you a target.
It means you're on
a lot of people's radar,
including
these knuckleheads
that got Tiana
at the studio the other day.
Okay? The streets
are watching, Cookie.
And they're counting your money.
That means
they're gonna come for it.
You know, you are the fifth
promoter I met with,
Mr. Delgado.
All of them bounced when
they found out about Tiana.
Well, I'm not afraid
to get my hands dirty.
That's what I do.
Really?
Yeah.
The wolves
are gonna come, Cookie,
and when they do, no promoters
are gonna touch you...
but me.
Hey, Cookie.
Porsha, I'm in a meeting.
I know you're busy,
but I heard about
what happened, and I could
fix your security problems.
How?
Meet Whoopty Woo.
Whoop the what?
Whoopty Woo. Look,
this the baddest bitch in town.
It's my grandma's mutt,
and she don't play.
I'm so sorry.
Granny said
you can keep her, too.
I don't want that mutt.
(dog growls)
Well, can I...
No, Porsha. Please leave.
Please.
I swear for Jesus.
Come on, Whoopty Woo.
(whines)
Okay.
Probationary.
Really?
I will call you
when I need you.
Get out of here, Porsha.
What were we saying?
I'm sorry.
I saw Reverend Pryce yesterday.
RHONDA:
Oh, yeah?
I'm gonna be baptized, Rhonda.
Okay.
I want you there.
Family, too.
Oh, come on, Andre, grow up.
You really think that
that clan is gonna
show up for you?
Well, whatever reservations
they have,
I'm, uh, hoping
they can put them aside.
Reverend wants me to confess
my sins to them, so...
Oh, wow. (chuckles)
Confess your sins.
And what exactly
are you going to confess, Andre?
It's not what
you think, Rhonda.
Just about how I wronged them
in the past, and...
and to ask them
for forgiveness.
Forgiveness?
You don't need
their forgiveness.
They're all
a bunch of sinners.
But, speaking of confessions,
um...
I'm not wearing
any underwear.
(both chuckle)
Somebody might
walk in.
I know.
Rhonda.
Yeah?
Not right now, babe.
Why not?
We haven't in so long.
We're doing things
different now.
(sighs)
Rhonda.
Okay. Yeah?
I love you.
Mm-hmm.
We're gonna
have a baby.
We're back.
(sighs)
LUCIOUS:
Long story short, I tell him
he ain't got no next of kin,
and now we stuck with him.
COOKIE:
We? Oh, no, that's your boy.
You take him.
I don't want him.
Oh, hell no.
I don't want no snitch.
Vernon was a bitch,
but he wasn't a chump.
And he didn't
kill hisself, either.
That's some B.S.
You know something I don't?
Do you?
Well, whatever happens,
can't leave him here.
It don't look good.
Why don't you give him
to your sister Carol?
She used to like him.
You know,
he told me Bunkie was
about to shake you down.
Probably thought it was
a matter of time
before you turned on him.
You knew he was a snake?
I ain't know nothing. (chuckles)
So, did you off him?
Did you get one of
your goons to do it?
No, I did not kill Vernon.
Get out of my way.
Everybody we know,
people that helped
build us up,
ended up in boxes that you
don't even want to claim.
How we gonna keep our
family safe, Lucious?
I feel safe. You don't?
Sorry.
That's what happens when you
don't have me looking after you.
You better not have
had nothing to do
with that
purse snatching.
(chuckles)
What you talking about?
Somebody must have
got to you.
(laughs)
This must be really liberating
for you, Lucious.
What?
Having no morals.
Why don't you prove
you're half-human
and take the damn ashes.
Go on, take it, Lucious.
He was your boy.
(sighs)
Where's Lucious?
Hey, what's up, Andre?
Your father's out today.
He asked me to take care
of a few things.
You on the payroll now?
I'm replacing Vernon.
No one can
replace Vernon.
Yeah, you're right
about that.
But there is work to do.
Uh, Lucious asked me
to look into, uh, Anita Calhoun.
Anika Calhoun.
Anika, yeah.
She doesn't work
for Lyon Dynasty, right?
Never did.
Cookie shut her out
from the jump, yeah.
Are you on good terms
with your mama?
Somewhat.
Lucious want copies
of Lyon Dynasty's music.
Finished and unfinished--
all of it.
And he was thinking
you might be able
to work your magic
and, you know...
He wants me
to steal their tracks?
Thought you might be down.
I'm not.
I'd never do anything
to hurt my mother.
And in the future, you
can tell him to tell me
directly about our
family affairs.
Of course, of course.
Excuse me if I overstepped.
You did.
I'm just trying
to make the boss happy.
And I'd appreciate if you forget
this conversation ever happened.
I'd appreciate it if you
left the glass on the table,
leave my father's office,
and don't come back
until he returns.
Wow.
So articulate.
And here I thought
we made nice,
digging in the dirt.
*
* So long
* Sweet words
* Don't have no use
for you anymore *
* No one
* To say them to
* So what in the hell
* Would I hold onto them for?
(music stops)
Okay. It's good,
but you seem
like you're not focused,
so this next part,
I need you to, like, really
push the passion. So...
* And today is
a special day *
* A celebration
* 'Cause I've finally come
to accept this fact *
(vocalizing)
* I'll never love
You know what I'm
talking about? The...
No, I love it. I got you.
(phone vibrates)
Sorry.
You-you good?
Yeah, I'm sorry.
Hold on a second.
Okay, um, I been sitting
here watching you
fiddle with that phone since
we started. If you need
to take a five, we can take
a five, bro, that's cool.
Yeah, I told him I didn't want
him to come on tour with me.
He took it as me saying
I want a open relationship,
which I don't.
Okay.
But it kind of spun
out of control after that.
Spun out of control
'cause that's...
'cause that's not
what you want?
Hey, you know how it is.
Like, this is everything.
This is the only thing,
and he knows that, so,
I mean, like, this is stupid.
Like, look what's happening
right now.
I'm in a studio
with my boy Ne-Yo--
you know what I'm saying?--
in this dope session,
and here I am talking
about this foolishness.
He's trippin'.
It's all good.
Okay, none of my business,
you didn't ask for this opinion,
but I personally feel like
you should bring him.
Really?
Yeah. And I've
done it both ways.
I've brought my lady,
I've been without my lady.
And both work, but it's really
about what it is that you want.
Now, if that dude
is your serenity,
if that's the one, then
he's supposed to be there,
'cause the road
is hectic.
Yeah.
Plus, I honestly feel like you
had it right from the other day.
The whole...
"not taking relationship
advice from Lucious Lyon."
Right.
Yeah, not the move.
Mm-mm.
All right, I'm gonna take him.
I'll tell him tonight.
Thank you for that.
Hey, come on, man.
Yeah.
(phone vibrates)
Yeah, I'm gonna
take this.
Okay, take it.
Yeah.
We gonna do this again.
From the top, let's go.
It's all good. I'm sorry.
*
* So long
* Sweet words
* Don't have no use
for you anymore *
* No one
* To say them to
* So what in the hell
would I hold onto them for? *
* And today's a special day
* A celebration
* 'Cause I finally come
to accept this fact *
* And the fact is that
* I'll never love again
* I'll never
love again *
* I'll never love again
* The way that I loved you...
* Why y'all girls
standin' together like that? *
* I can't take it *
* Uh, hey, uh, hey *
* I can do anything you like,
I can do anything you need *
* And I got a better body
than the magazines you read *
* None of them boys know the
first thing about your fantasy *
* And if they tried, they cannot
do it just like me *
* I know
you certainly been gone *
* And it's been much too long
* And there's some things
we need to do *
* So I know you need
to get home... *
I'm feeling this music.
You feeling me?
No!
What?
I'm so stupid.
I should have known
this is what this was all about.
Laura, where you going?
I'm not about this.
I'm not one of those girls.
She talking about us?
MALA:
Sounded like it.
(Becky laughing)
Your eyes aren't
even focusing. Focus.
And I'm recording
this dope-ass song with Ne-Yo.
Obviously.
And we going on the tour, and
he's gonna be doing some dates.
You going on
tour with Ne-Yo?
Mm-hmm.
Boy, Jesus do love you.
I don't care what
the Bible says.
(laughs)
Jesus...
Where is Michael?
He's on the balcony.
* You hit hard,
I hit harder... *
JAMAL:
Baby,
come back in...
(zips pants)
* Holding it in
only gives me more to get out *
* I got the strength to dig...
I thought you two
had discussed this.
* It's getting harder...
Discussed this?
It's my fault. It's not his.
If you don't get up out of my
house right now, swear to God,
you're about to go
over that balcony.
CHASE ONE: Can we talk
about this like...?
Get up out my house!
* Cross me, baby,
and it be at your peril now *
* Won't be all right.
So, Birdman didn't
feel some type of way
when you went on
tour with Lil Wayne?
(laughs)
Yeah, he did.
I told him I got to go
where the checks clear.
Mm-hmm, and right now,
that Cash Money is just not
as liquid as that Young Money.
Really?
(dog barking)
Whoopty Woo, shut up!
(barking continues)
This damn dog.
(glass shatters in distance)
(whining)
(quiet clattering)
Get him.
Drop it, bitch!
Drop it!
(grunting)
Open it up.
Let me see what
you stealing!
Who sent you?
Who sent you?!
Thirsty!
Thirsty. (groaning)
Lucious's slimy-ass lawyer.
You was taking my
masters for Lucious?
I should blow
your head off.
Ooh, surveillance bugs.
What?!
You want to call the cops?
No! No. No cops.
Get out of here.
You better not
come back.
Tell Lucious
to kiss my black ass!
You packing?
See you are, too.
(laughs)
(elevator bell dings)
Oh, so you had a party,
you didn't invite me?
I'm offended.
I don't even know
why I let you up in here.
Try not to slash
none of my artwork.
HAKEEM:
Wake up.
(groans)
ANDRE:
Will you two stop fighting?
Wanted to talk to you
about Uncle Vernon.
JAMAL:
So sick of talking about
Uncle Vernon.
What's there to talk about?
He tried to sell out Dad,
it didn't work,
and he took the easy way out.
Whatever happened between him
and Dad doesn't negate the fact
that he always wanted
what's best for us, Jamal.
He taught me
that it was my responsibility,
as the oldest,
to always look out for you guys,
to protect you.
Instead, I made sure you were
at each other's throats.
I wanted Empire so bad that I...
I was prepared to let you two
kill each other
so I'd be the only one left.
Come on, Dre.
What you talking about?
It wasn't Hakeem
that had you robbed
at Ghetto Ass Studio, Jamal.
I set that up.
Wait. When Jamal
almost got shot?!
I didn't think it would go
as far as it did, okay?
But it did.
He could've got killed!
I didn't think it would
got as far as it...
It was wrong of me.
I was sick.
I'm sorry.
It's unreal.
There's nothing I can do
to change the past.
I can... I can just say
that I'm sorry.
I'm getting baptized
this Sunday.
And I'd appreciate it
if you both would come.
(sighs)
Guess we all
make mistakes, right?
I'll come.
Thanks, bro.
I'm not gonna
go get shaded by the pastor
just 'cause I can't
pray away the gay.
I don't know where he stands,
Jamal.
You should ask, Dre.
It's important.
But you know where I stand.
You'd be coming to support me,
man, not the church.
I want to help
heal this family.
I want us to be
whole again.
I mean it with
all of my heart.
Think about it.
Yeah.
Thank you.
All right.
Thanks, y'all.
ANDRE: Thirsty sent
some guys to break into
Lyon Dynasty.
Thirsty does
whatever I tell him to do.
Yeah, for your business,
not mine.
And certainly not
our family affairs, right?
This family is my business.
What, Thirsty
too hood for you?
Me? No.
I remember it all, Dad.
I could have been
in the streets if I wanted to.
I chose not to.
You're testing me.
That's obvious.
I'm not testing you.
I'm just telling you,
the only commandments
I want followed here are mine.
Check your faith
at the door, son.
I can't do it.
My faith is who I am,
and it's not gonna change.
Dad, I want to make
a confession to you.
Why? What you do now?
When Cookie first
got out of prison, I'm the one
that told her to blackmail you
and produce Jamal.
I knew she had somebody smart
in her corner.
I want you to know
that I'm fully committed
to you and Empire.
I regret ever
jeopardizing this company
for my own personal gain.
Okay, good.
I forgive you.
Can we get back
to work now?
I'm not finished, Pop.
When I was off my medication,
before I went into treatment,
I felt hated and
rejected by you.
I wanted to hurt
you so bad...
that I went into
your studio,
put a gun to my head,
and I pulled the trigger.
I wanted to die.
Lord saved me.
I know you don't believe
in this stuff, Pop,
but you gave me life...
and God gives me hope.
Will you come to my
baptism this weekend?
It would mean everything for
me to have you there, Pop.
You're asking me to come
and watch somebody
dunk you in tap water
and pretend
that that's gonna make
all your sins go away?
There is no... God.
There's...
You just need to
man the hell up.
HAKEEM:
Laura, hold up.
You're stalking me now?
You won't answer my calls.
I have a train to catch.
I'll make it fast.
Look, I'm sorry. I didn't
mean to come on to you.
Did I lead you on somehow?
No, you didn't, but I just
never met a girl singer
that didn't get
down like that.
Well, I don't
get down like that.
Okay, I get it,
and I respect
that you're not
that type of girl.
You forgive me?
Don't you want to sing?
All I ever wanted
to do was sing.
Not for money or fame
or any of that.
It's corny, but I like
making people happy.
When I seen you in that
little bar in Brooklyn,
I was in a bad headspace.
But I want your voice
to touch the world.
You know, plus, I'm on
my mogul swag now.
And you're the real deal, and
I don't want to mess that up.
I won't ever push up
on you ever again.
I swear.
Look, my driver will take
you wherever you're going.
I'll catch a cab.
(car door opens)
Take her home.
* I never know what's
really comin', I do ignore it *
* If I'd-a known a few years
ago, I'd-a made a hit *
* I probably would've
bought some clothes,
even brushed my hair *
* I'd probably be the one
or maybe be the only *
* Go... go get in my lane,
I swear, this hater's phony *
* So I... so I ca...
so I ca... *
Who are you talking about?
(sighs)
You're talking about
your pops, right?
Yeah.
He 'posed to be here.
Every time I spit a 16 for him,
it put a smile on his face.
He ain't here,
'cause he's a rotten bastard.
Hell you gonna say that?
'Cause it's the truth.
I didn't come here for this.
Doesn't mean he didn't love you.
(sighs)
A lot of fathers
don't know how to show love.
Look, I knew your daddy.
And he loved you so much
that if you cut
off his right arm,
he'd reach over and hug
you with his left one.
That's what you
got to lay down.
You got to stop
running from it,
and you got to turn and
meet it face-to-face.
*
* Should've never left me,
oh, my *
* Tell me why you had
to leave me, oh, why *
* Why you had to go,
why you had to go *
* Try'na keep a grip
on my sanity, right *
* 'Cause they don't really know
what it cost *
* For this life, the hurt, the
hunger, the time never right *
* Thoughts of killing everything
in plain sight, your word *
* Is your bond,
if I could say word to my moms *
* You know what I'm on
* But you was my world
* Never did wrong in my eyes,
forever your girl *
* Crazy, what you made me
indirectly, but you saved me *
* From a lil' girl to a lady
* Still a hustler
like you raised me *
* God bless your soul
* 'Cause you're gone now
* All is forgiven
'cause I'm grown now *
* Gotta make it out here
on my own now *
* I pick the pen up
and put the guns down *
* Every word spoken,
never when in vain *
* Speak it to the world,
take away my pain *
* They say you live once,
when you go it's a shame *
* I guess
that I'm sayin' the same *
* Should've never left me,
oh, my *
* Tell me why you had
to leave me, oh, why... *
I'm glad you're here, Ma.
(chuckles)
You know, when you
boys were babies,
my mama wanted me
to get y'all baptized.
Babies don't know what sin is.
No, I think you should
choose the Lord,
then get baptized.
That way, it sticks.
I'm gonna make it stick.
Mm-hmm.
I have to.
I'm not a good person, Ma.
Stop saying stuff
like that, stupid.
I've done horrible things.
So have I, Dre.
But we are good people.
You wouldn't be here trying to
make it right if you weren't.
God knows your heart.
Now, keep your mouth shut.
I don't need to hear
about what you did,
and neither does anybody else.
You look good.
I'm proud of you.
(playing "Amazing Grace")
Hi. Thanks for coming.
Of course.
Thanks, brother.
Great to have you.
Thank you.
What's up, man? How you doing?
What's up, man?
You all right?
I'm happy you could show up
for your brother.
Actually, I'm surprised.
I don't know why,
Ma. We're family.
We show up and we
support each other.
Even if we don't actually
believe in each other.
I believe in you, Jamal.
Always have,
always will.
How are things going
with your father?
He's taking me
to the next level.
I'm working with Ne-Yo,
we're planning a tour.
It's everything
I ever wanted.
Uh, everything you
ever wanted.
I'm happy for you.
You ain't got to lie, Ma.
We're in the house of the Lord.
So is he coming?
Nah.
It's probably
for the best.
That devil walk in here, this
whole place might catch fire.
(chuckling)
*
(people murmuring)
Ooh.
Mention the devil name,
and he will walk right in.
God help us all.
I'm Andre's father,
Lucious Lyon.
Reverend L.C. Pryce.
Grateful you could join us.
Thank you.
Your son
is an, um...
exceptional man.
He never ceases to amaze me.
ANDRE:
Thanks for coming, Pop.
I love you.
I know you do.
Please.
I think I seen some angels
running for cover.
Ooh.
(chuckles)
Oh, let me make space
in case lightning strikes.
What happened, Dad?
I thought you
couldn't make it.
I was in the studio
with Freda Gatz,
and her rhymes moved me.
She reminded me of how...
important my presence is
to you boys.
I was the one
that provided for y'all
while y'all mama was locked up.
I made this family.
This family
that you spy on,
rob and beat down
when you can't control us?
Huh? Oh.
I got something.
Take this bug
and stick it up yours.
I'm sorry, Cookie,
are you under surveillance?
(chuckles)
Sucks, don't it?
Quit trying
to steal our tracks.
Quit sending those
tired-ass thugs to harass us.
And quit trying to turn us
against each other,
turn us all into sinners
like you.
Preach, Ma, preach.
From the book of John,
"When these things came..."
(quietly): When it comes
to sinning, Cookie,
you don't need
nobody's help.
And for your
information,
I don't ever, ever quit.
Shh!
PRYCE:
Andre Martin Lyon,
you repented
and confessed your sins.
Do you agree to turn
from your old ways
and embrace Jesus Christ
as your Lord and Savior?
ANDRE:
Yes, I do.
PRYCE: Then upon the confession
of your faith, I baptize you
in the name of the Father...
You don't cuss at your mama!
Get in that tub!
Get in that water!
Get in there! Go on!
No, Mama!
I'm sorry!
Come on!
DWIGHT:
I won't do it again! No!
I'm sorry!
Mom, it's me!
PRYCE: ...and the Son...
LEAH:
* Mona Lisa
Mama!
* Men have named you
(gasps)
* You're so like the lady
* With the mystic smile
(Dwight gasps)
PRYCE:
...and the Holy Ghost.
* Is it only
* 'Cause you're lonely
* They have blamed you
* For that Mona Lisa
strangeness *
(fading):
* In your smile?
PRYCE:
Amen!
CONGREGATION:
(applause, cheering)
PRYCE: Will you all
stand and rejoice?
(cheering continues)
God is good!
* For every mountain
* Ooh, ooh, ooh *
* You brought me over
* For every trial
* Ooh, ooh, ooh *
* You've seen me through
* For every blessing
* And I will sing
* Hallelujah
* For this
* I give you
* Praise...
What is this?! Get off!
I warned you.
Get off me!
Get down or lay down.
What is this?!
Help!
Get off me! Help!
Get in!
(groans)
Go!
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH